RIFFY: Hello everyone.
I'm Riffy from Creatorsgarten.
This session is co-hosted
with p' Thai Pang.
From Creatorsgarten.
Today, we will look at the software tools
behind Creatorsgarten’s logistics.
We will divide the session into two parts.
The first part will be about how we
manage our YouTube channel.
How we simplify the process.
The second part will be
presented by Thai Pang.
He will show you Contentsgarten.
It is our custom wiki engine.
We utilize many GitHub features.
Let's get started.
We have officially formed Creatorsgarten
for 1 year and 2 months.
We have organized many events.
Every talk we livestreamed,
we also archive it.
One purpose is to publish it to
our YouTube channel.
For those interested in the topics
of our past events.
In the past, we didn’t have many
centralized entities that organizes events
so the videos are spread over
many YouTube channels
In Creatorsgarten, we trim each video,
post-process them and upload to YouTube.
Before starting streaming, we need
to set up our devices for livestreaming.
Like 1 hour ago.
Lots of wires over there.
Archiving an event is hard.
A lot of things can
go wrong unpredictably.
Some speakers have just slides.
Some speakers wants to
play a video with sound.
Sometimes we don't know in advance
what each speaker needs.
Microphone is also an issue.
When we run an event at Cleverse (venue),
we know how the setup looks like.
But when we move to another venue,
it's called uncharted space.
We don't know what they provide for us.
It's our risk.
If they don't have a microphone,
where can we find it?
Another thing is,
can we have full control?
If I speak too loudly,
I can't control the sound.
I can't control the output sound.
How do we solve this?
The answer to this problem
is to spend money.
(AUDIENCE: Rich!)
We use...
In each Creatorsgarten event,
we receive sponsorship money
from many sponsors.
Which we use for maximum benefit.
But when there is some leftover money,
we keep it into a cash pool,
we use this money to improve
our workflow, and share it.
We simplify everything.
Video signal is fed into an ATEM Mini.
It receives the video that is
projected on the screen like this,
as well as the sound that flows into
the software running on Mac Mini.
But sometimes this solution
isn't good enough.
Sometimes the venue doesn't provide a way
to feed the sound from the mixer
In a desperate situation,
sometimes we had to do a hotfix
sticking a mic to the amplifier.
It kinda works but not as great,
but well, ain’t broke, don’t fix.
When we go to each venue, we took notes
about what equipment they have for us.
So when we stream at the same place,
we don't have to ask them
what equipment they have.
When we finished recording,
it may be 3-5 hours long.
The file that came out of OBS
is very large, like 32GB.
Too big for Final Cut to handle.
If we put it in Final Cut, it hangs.
We have to optimize it first.
For this, we have a FFmpeg script.
We re-encode from H.264 to H.265.
The size is reduced from 32GB to 5GB.
Good for using with Final Cut.
And it's also archived in a physical NAS.
In case of an unfortunate event where
our channel is hacked
and becomes an Elon Musk livestream.
We have a backup.
Ok, so we've already recorded the video.
Now we upload it to YouTube.
But after uploading,
we have to manage the content.
Managing this is even harder.
Because we want consistency
in our YouTube channel.
Consistent video title format.
We start with the session.
Followed by the speaker.
Or if it's a stream archive,
it's in another format.
If it's a session with many speakers,
we can't fit all names in the title.
We have to put it in yet another format.
Actually, we can manage it manually.
But it may be too inefficient.
And if we want to add subtitle,
how will we manage it?
Okay.
So, P' Thai created this repo in GitHub.
creatorsgarten/videos
We can manage each video's metadata
through this repository.
And a GitHub Actions bot will
make changes accordingly.
When we manage each session,
We can create a markdown file
with metadata, such as
title, speaker, youtube id,
and session description.
For other video types,
such as hackathon pitch,
we just specify the type, and our code
will format the title accordingly.
For subtitles, we don't have to manage the
files locally or on YouTube.
In this repo, we can upload subtitle file
in VTT format, which is a global standard.
It will be uploaded to YouTube.
Consistency is not only about
video title and description,
but also about the video thumbnail.
At first, we intended to make
each event look different.
P' Thai suggested using
a consistent thumbnail format
similar to Sakurai's channel
on creating games.
The solution we got is not an automation.
But it’s Figma's component system.
When we make video thumbnails,
we have a preset template.
We have the header on the top and
we put the video image at the back.
And we put two lines of text
as a catchphrase.
Figma’s system is very versatile.
We can create the header as a component
And when we change it
It will take effect with every video
We don't need to update
the header one by one
And when all files are finished,
we put them in the GitHub repo
It will trigger an event in GitHub Actions
and it will update the videos on YouTube
Why did we do all of this?
We did it because of the ownership
Creatorsgarten is an open source group
Even our financials information
is in the open on the website
But we can't grant our YouTube channel’s
ownership to just everyone
But we can open source the videos metadata
And when someone wants to
make changes to their video
they can send a pull request.
This is the main concept.
But we also utilize GitHub
with another feature
Our YouTube channel banner
We want our YouTube channel’s banner
to adapt to each event
When there is an event,
we will adapt it to another style.
This is our work in progress.
Manually creating new graphics
every time is a waste of time
because we are lazy
So we have another repository
called "banner"
The concept is simple. A SvelteKit app.
A puppeteer script will take a screenshot
of that webpage into a picture
Then it will use the YouTube API
to update the channel banner.
This action runs periodically. And that’s
how we utilize GitHub Actions.
Now I will show you.
OK
So, this one
These are some videos
I will create a new thumbnail.
I duplicate the frame
and align it to the grid.
I want to create a header.
I detach this one.
This is a full demo.
Did they move the detach command?
Never mind.
I will not create a new one.
But I will show you how to
edit the thumbnail.
For example, the Side Project Showdown.
I will change it to Code Golf Party.
If we have a lot of videos,
we can see that when we change
the header component
it will take effect on all videos.
Now I just export these frames.
Then, I will get the thumbnail
that is ready to be published.
When I get a file like this,
we go the video repo,
when I want to update the thumbnail
for a certain session,
I just drag and drop the jpeg file
into the folder.
Then, I will push it to GitHub.
And wait 1 minute for GitHub Actions
to update it on YouTube.
That's about it.
This is the process of
managing our videos.
Next, the second part
about how we manage contents
with our custom wiki engine.
I will invite P'Thai to explain it.
Please.
THAI: Thank you, Riffy.
Before I start, I would like to give
a big hand to Riffy.
The content in our YouTube channel
in the past 2-3 months,
Riffy helped managed them
all by himself.
I have set up the automation,
made the Figma template,
but Riffy is the one
who did all the gruntwork.
He trims the clips, fixes audio issues,
uploads them to YouTube,
makes thumbnails, etc.
We have some automation, but admittedly
some of these works are very tough.
Our channel will not grow
this much without Riffy.
Thank you, Riffy.
AnD iF YoU HaVen'T SuBsCrIbEd
tO tHe Creatorsgarten cHaNnEL,
Please consider subscribing.
We want our content to reach more viewers.
Now, we have like, how many subscribers?
400, right? Cool.
In addition to orgazing and
livestreaming our own events
we also partner with other organizers
such as Microsoft Thailand,
the Spark Tech Thailand community
We help them livestream and
grow our channel at the same time.
Now, this part is about our website.
This is creatorsgarten.org.
Let's take a look at the features first.
Here's a page that lists all events.
This is our wiki.
Wiki is like a source of knowledge for us.
Anything that can be public knowledge
we will try to put it here.
For example, the body of knowledge about
our live streaming set up is here.
Previously, the live streaming team
is just me and Riffy. But now,
we put the know-how on the wiki,
and more people helped us livestream.
Riffy wrote in the wiki
how to set up OBS.
These are in the Wiki.
The Wiki system is the topic of this talk.
We built our own custom wiki engine.
But why? Why do we have to
make it ourselves?
Before we get to this point,
we have tried many solutions.
We will go from the mature solutions
to the most modern solution.
First is the classic wiki software
such as, MediaWiki, DokuWiki, PMWiki.
They are easy to edit.
This is the point that I really like.
If we want to change a page,
just hit the edit button, type and save.
There is something called the Wiki way.
The philosophy of the wiki way
is to make bad edits easy to correct
rather than hard to make.
So that we make changes regularly.
MediaWiki follows the principle.
The second thing I like is that
they use a plaintext format.
Why?
So that when I want to edit, I can
copy everything to VSCode
make an edit, then, copy and paste
it back in, and press save.
That’s what I like about plaintext.
These systems are quite flexible.
For example, this wiki is called TVTropes.
It uses a modded PMWiki.
A lot of cool features.
It's a wiki that I really like.
There are hundreds of extensions
for MediaWiki that we can install
to customize our wiki.
These are what I like about them.
But there are some a pain points.
First, most of these programs
are written in PHP,
and when we deploy, we have to
rent a server and set up a database.
Their tech stack is not really
cloud-native. Not serverless-ready.
Also, I don't really like its syntax.
It's not Markdown.
In MediaWiki, to create bold text,
we have to write three single quotes.
If you’re used to Markdown,
you might be confused.
You have to get used
to a different syntax.
You might not like it.
Also, they are not headless.
They come with a bespoke theming system,
usually written as a PHP template.
And then use jQuery, CSS, etc.
It's quite difficult to
integrate Tailwind or React.
So we didn't choose to use
these off-the-shelf wiki software.
The second option using
a static site generator.
They’ve been around for about 10 years.
Jekyll, Eleventy, Hugo, VitePress, etc.
I like that it's plain text, Markdown.
And the content is in Git.
Easy to manage.
And when it's a static site,
we can upload it to any static site host.
No need to take care of the server.
GitHub Pages can host these static sites.
Including others such as Netlify,
Vercel, Cloudflare Pages, etc.
but the downside I found when
using with static site generator is
It's quite difficult to contribute.
In a traditional wiki, we hit edit,
make changes, save. All done.
See the result immediately.
But when it comes to static sites,
I have to fork the repo, make changes,
run the dev server, check it, commit.
Push it, open a PR. Wait for a review.
Only then, the change is published.
Like this one, I try to contribute to
the documentation of Next.js.
I changed just two lines.
But I have to explain what I fixed.
Almost 10 lines.
There’s more barrier to contribution.
It's far from the wiki way that says it
should be easy to change and revert.
I have to fork the repo and run the
dev server to see a preview.
It's not very convenient.
And when all is done, it’s not reflected
immediately. I have to wait for a rebuild,
as well as a redeploy,
before I see my changes go live
so I decided not to use
a static site generator.
Nowadays there’s a tool that has been
booming in the past 4-5 years: Notion.
Actually, we've been using
Notion a lot since 2019.
We use Notion to store all kinds
of knowledge for our events.
I really like Notion. Many people can
collaborate in real time. UX is very good.
Many friends are already
familiar with it as well.
But here's what annoys me.
First, sometimes I want to put in
charts, speech bubbles,
or widgets that are not in Notion.
We can't fully control its appearance.
Expressivity is limited.
Second, I hate Notion's sidebar.
I try to organize the content in Notion.
No matter how much I try to organize,
the sidebar is still a mess.
So I don't like the sidebar.
I prefer to have a big pile of pages
that link together.
Another thing is that the content
is in its own format.
It's not plain text.
I can't just copy it, fix it in VS Code,
and paste it back.
And if many people use it a lot,
it may be expensive.
So we ended up creating
our own a wiki engine.
It's called Contentsgarten.
I'll show you the features.
It's an open source, headless,
modern, and cloud-native wiki engine.
It uses Markdown syntax. To make text
bold, use the usual ** syntax.
No need to remember the new syntax.
And the content is stored in Git.
All contents are stored in the
"creatorsgarten/wiki" repo
as Markdown files.
We can make changes it on the web.
There is a UI for it.
We can also clone the repo
and make changes in our own editor.
Or use "github.dev", which is VS Code
in the browser, integrated with GitHub.
We can make changes in VS Code anywhere.
We've integrated this already.
If we go to any wiki page,
and press the "." key,
it'll take us to github.dev.
If we use VS Code, we have GitHub Copilot,
so we won't be writing alone.
And if we want to make a large-scale
change, for example,
If I want to change many pages at once,
I don't have to learn or create
a script using any proprietary API;
I just clone the repo, write a script
that makes changes to the files,
and push them back to the wiki.
It's also tightly integrated with GitHub.
When we change a page on the web,
it actually calls the GitHub API
to update the Markdown file
directly on GitHub.
We use GitHub as a source of truth.
And when the information is on GitHub,
we can use many GitHub’s
built-in features, such as webhooks.
When someone changes a page,
it fires a webhook to Discord.
So I get notified on Discord whenever
someone makes a change.
No need to write custom code. This is
built in to GitHub and Discord.
As Git maintains a history
of all the changes,
we don't have to implement
history features ourselves.
The "History" link just
takes you to GitHub.
As we built the system ourselves,
we can add custom components.
For example, we want to discuss
some parts of the content,
We want to mark it as such.
So we have a speech bubble component.
So editors can talk to each other
inside a wiki page.
Or sometimes we want to visualize
the event feedback.
We have a Bar Chart component.
This page lists all our events,
along with related links and pages.
It's a fairly advanced table.
But it's just one line of code here.
The engine can render templates.
And the template can, in turn, query other
pages to generate a table.
This is using the Liquid
templating language.
We don't have to maintain
this table ourselves.
When we create a new page,
this table will update accordingly.
Each page can have structured data
in the YAML Front Matter.
Those information will be
indexed into the database,
which can be queried
via an API or from a template.
We don't have to maintain index pages.
We let the page query from the database.
So this feature allows us to implement
more advanced features.
For example, website settings
are also stored in the wiki,
as well as feature flags.
Even the inventory of our equipments,
we track them in this wiki page.
We don't need to deal with
complex markdown tables;
we keep it as structured data, and use
Liquid template to generate a nice table.
Therefore, the advantage of keeping
information as YAML is that
it is machine readable. We can
write scripts to maintain it.
I like that it is open data.
Finally, it is headless.
The web page that you see
is not part of Contentsgarten.
Contentsgarten only provides APIs.
It lets us view, search, and edit pages.
Here, we want to find events
that took place at Cleverse.
When we send the request,
it will search the entire wiki
for a page whose "event.location"
is equal to "Cleverse."
That is, we can put information into
the wiki, then we can ask it questions.
Okay.
These are the basic features.
Let's look at the tech stack.
First, our website is built with Astro.
Riffy recommended it in the
previous BKK.JS meetup.
if you want to know about Astro, you can
watch the talk on YouTube channel.
And the backend is Contentgarten.
The code is in another repo.
It will talk to GitHub API
to extract data from the repository
that we consider to be a source of truth.
But, recall the example where we query
for events that happen at Cleverse.
GitHub API does not have
an API for this kind of query.
We have to use a database
as a cache, or an index.
So, the source of truth is on GitHub,
but the data is indexed in MongoDB.
And denormalize them so we can
query the data in each file easily.
So this is about Contentgarten.
Let's come to the conclusion.
The takeaway for this talk is that
I feel that GitHub ecosystem allows us
to build a custom wiki system
with very little effort.
Without GitHub's various features like
webhooks, APIs, github.dev, or Copilot,
building such system would
have taken much longer
That said, Contentsgarten
is very bare bones.
It doesn't even have
a "Delete page" feature.
But it's not necessary,
because we don't do that often.
When I want to delete the page, I just
delete it directly from GitHub UI.
that is, we stand on top
of the shoulder of giants.
As the data is plain text in Git, we can
build integrations more easily
without using any proprietary API.
One idea it to visualize
how pages interconnect.
I did this with my own website.
It might be cool if we can see
how each page are connected,
so we can see the knowledge graph.
We also have "grtn.org" link shortener.
We can avoid using costly
link shortener services
by leveraging the wiki as
a short links database.
Then make it so that grtn.org pulls data
from the front matter here
and redirect accordingly.
When the data is easily accessible,
it's convenient to do stuff.
Our YouTube channel banner,
that Riffy showed earlier,
It draws information
from the wiki as well.
But I have to say that
this tool is not a silver bullet.
There are many complaints.
Some don't like it to be plain text.
Some wants Notion-like
editing experience.
Or sometimes, we have some info
that we cannot practically make public.
I suggest to use the right tool
for the right job.
If you want to take meeting minutes,
just use Notion or use Google Docs.
For collaborative tables, Google Sheets.
For designs, Figma.
Use the right tool for the right job.
But I would encourage making
everything "reachable" from the wiki.
By "reachable" I mean, there should be a
chain of links from the homepage to it.
For example, I want to find the sponsor
proposal document for
The Stupid Hackathon Thailand 2,
that happened in 2018 (7 years ago)
We go to the homepage, then wiki,
then go to the list of events,
then The Stupid Hackathon Thailand,
then Coverage.
There are many documents in there.
including "Information for sponsors".
We didn't use Notion at that time.
We used Dropbox Paper.
Have you ever used it?
It came before Notion.
In conclusion, no matter
where the information is.
At least, it is reachable
from the home page.
This makes our knowledge
more easily discoverable.
That's the conclusion for this talk.
Here are the repo links, but
you don't have to remember it.
Go to our wiki, and then,
scroll down to Tech Stack.
That would be it for my session.
Thank you everyone.
Any questions about either part?
AUDIENCE: From what I see,
you plan your projects in here, right?
How about evaluation?
How do you incorporate the feedback
from to improve future projects?
Do you have a database
to keep track of these?
I mean, after you organize an event,
there was a feedback form
where people can make
suggestions for improvements.
How do you summarize
or otherwise process this data
so the team can learn from it
and improve future events?
THAI: Oh, thanks for that Riffy.
Okay, thank you for the question.
This is the feedback we receive in
our 7th Stupid Hackathon,
our latest event.
After the event is finished, we sent a
Google Form to ask for feedback.
Usually, we will ask 5 questions:
1. What do you like?
2. What should be improved?
3. What do you want us to try?
4. Give us a score of 1-10.
5. Anything to say to the organizers?
All the data is then archived in the wiki.
Next generations of staffs will be able to
find the feedback of previous events.
It will not be lost to time.
For the 7th Stupid Hackathon,
we also asked:
What is your favorite activity?
Each response will be listed here.
We also summarize this feedback
with the help of ChatGPT.
So, you can read the raw message,
or you can read ChatGPT's summary.
We also record quantitative data here,
such as the event's rating score.
The chart and basic statistics such as
averages are generated automatically.
Next year's organizer can take a look.
We also put in the ideas for next year.
So next year's organizers can learn about
potential ideas from previous year's.
There's also…
Let me take some time to find it.
Here it is.
We collected various metrics
from each Stupid Hackathon.
We ran 7 hackathons so far.
And keep track of this in each year:
How many teams there are,
How many tickets, how many presenters,
event ratings, etc, something like this.
When you click on the event rating,
you can read the full feedback.
This is how we collect feedback in various
events and not let it be lost to time.
Does this answer your question?
Ok.
RIFFY: Any additional questions?
POOM: Ok, that's about it.
Thank you, P'Thai and Riffy!
Isn't that cool, Chang?
While we set this up... Pub, what
do you think about what you see today?
PUB: Cool, I just know that Bitbucket
can do a lot of things.
POOM: Wh... Do you still want
the GitHub stickers?
PUB: Oh sorry, I meant... I just know
that GitLab can do a lot of things.
POOM: If they don't let us organize
the next event, this is why.